What if I wanted to let's say good length for example of an array you can again apply the lens and then
open prentices and specify V.
Whatever you're looking for so why so obvious to find why before here.
So now I have I have y listed here somewhere.
So that's where I find my y major X or Y every year.
Well if I wanted to get Let's see the length of why you can actually appeal the length of why that would
get you'll have three elements.
What if I want to get the shape of one.
For example if they find a matrix and I want to get the shape of the matrix then you can write Y darting
by the method cheap.
So why are cheap debt should get the sheep.
Now we have three by it's basically an array work single dimension.
That's why we have three rate.
If you look at the Matrix which we defined earlier.
If you go up you will see that we find immediacy which is Two By Two.
Again if you call the matrix and apply the method shape's if you play Matrix dog cheap if you run it
they will tell you now you have it's two by two.
So let's assume that I wanted to get the shape of X so he don't find X again 15 by 50 matrix of one
to get the shape of getting any means.
But you press 8 create a new cell here.
Growth X dot shape to get the sheep will tell you.
Now it's actually 15 by 15.
Ah perfect.
Okay.
What if I wanted to get let's say the datatype who is specifying in the name of the Matrix or the array
umpire rerate Matrix is provide the tape and you run it they'll tell you OK now it's actually into sheraton's
three two bits.
OK perfect.
What if we wanted to let's say reshape an array into a matrix.
So let's assume that we have here one by four array which is simply a have one drol and four columns.
And what I wanted to do is to actually take this in and reshape it into two by two meters x obviously
with news that reshape the number of elements has to match.
Okay.
So here you are that you want it to have four elements and you want to see a range of two by two.
To do this again you have to define your array.
So here you define y equals to n.p. that array brackets three five seven eight and then you can use
the reshape method to apply y dot reshape.
And then you specify the dimensions what the outcome would.
The upper dimensions should look like he does specify as to by two key points from there.
They'll tell you Okay perfect.
Now we actually have an array.
That's again three by five.
And then we have seven in eight or eight.
OK.
Great.
What if I wanted to let's say or pime the maximum and minimum value within the umpiring.
Again you can use the method Y Max to get the max.
So if you run to them to give you the Max let's make some element was 8 he going get the men you were
on it.
Why not men that we give them a number and he is what if I wanted to get let's say the index What's
the index of the min of the index of the max you can use y.
Our maths if you will on it they'll do your good index actually three right which is basically the third
element that's the largest and because here you have us in the 0 1 2 and 3.
Right.
If you run for the men they will kill you zero which means the index here because of three that's the
smallest number within our array within our image.
All right.
That's great.
Again it's very simple.
Just you're kind of your up or introduction to an umpire and then not going to use it again for them
to develop a lot of practical project moving forward.
The next step is what I wanted to perform some mathematical operations using an umpire raise again here.
Let's assume they're going to fine let's say and an error an array non-pay a race or n.p. arrange 1
and 5.
Would you any.
Again one two three and four get one going to do here.
I'm going to define again why which is an umpire rate umpire or the range one and five as well.
And that's what I'm going to do here.
It's going to end up x and y case with another this will generate again Z will going to be one plus
one which is two.
Two plus two equals four and three of three six and so on and so forth.
If I wanted to let's see you can perform whatever mathematical operation there actually performed before.
If you have to Squarings you and your multiplication division whatever operation you're going to use
to perform it on an umpire is no problem.
Here you can specify as equals x squared you can run it then you actually perform that on the entire
array.
You can do that you can actually take every element and square that element.
You can take one become Square as two square becomes four to three square becomes nine and four square
becomes 16.
What if I wanted to say or did the square root you can again apply n.p. square root.
And then you specify you pass along your Z that will have two and K was going to be square root of that
of this one you pass along Z the square root of this.
We'll go back again because you're in the square and then you're in this weird world after so they're
pretty much are these corporations cancel each other.
They come up with it with the Y matrix that you had before.
Why a reader had before which is 1 1 2 3 and 4 4 not in the exponential you can apply n.p. exponential
of Y that will generate again the the values of the exponent.
OK perfect.
But what if I wanted to let's say or Paean what you call it elements slicing and indexing.
OK we've done that before and when we when we dealt with lists who were going to do it again for an
umpire raise it's again it's very easy very simple.
He defined the find let's say integer numbers.
Now you know like between 1.
Again we need 10 numbers that are listed between 1 and 10 that will generate again 10 numbers.
No umpire Ray that has all the numbers in there for y to access let's the first element specified with
the square brackets.
What index I'm looking for.
So here you call x square beckert of zero in on that that one generates three because that's my first
element here.
If I wanted to let's say call is three they're all genay this element because the index is 0 1 2 and
3.
What if I wanted to do slicing.
I wanted to dig them and piry and actually extract part of it in order to do that.
Then you have to specify again the initial index and then column and then the last index you looking
for.
So help one or two little grabs zeal out of three.
If you run this I will tell you okay now you grab the first element 3 1 and 2.
Okay.
So you simply again you exclude the last element.
So your game simply the elements 0 with indexed 0 1 and 2.
You don't include the element with index number of three reps.
What if I wanted to perform in broadcasting which simply you want it let's say to assign a specific
number.
Okay and broadcast it across the entire array would simply put if I have let's say then by their matrix
I need let's say for elements to have the specific number.
You can do that using broadcasting.
You can do that he can specify X..
Let's say zeelander to three we can put 10 into it.
If you run it there was any Okay.
Now I actually place these elements with number 10 as well done here.
If you want to change this let's say and make it X to let's see 6 you're on it you will see that actually
at least elements with indices 0 1 2 3 4 and 5.
And he actually skipped six because it's you don't include the last number in there.
What if I wanted to let's say the find again.
Again the Matrix defence was Phi MP threaten random Trent.
Again he wanted to give numbers random numbers integer numbers from 1 to 10 but with the dimensions
of 5.5 fewer under there you in it the Matrix has not and the numbers from 1 in 5 by 5.
What if I wanted to let's say up team.
The first element to play you can specify matrix of 0 0 that will simply open the first draw.
So when you specify just one index that will put in the index or the impales altogether.
So here prequel Matrix 0.
Then with that we get a call for 1 6 9 5.
What if I want to talk.
Let's see the second one.
So dismiss 5 there's a will.
We'll junnaid this which is 4 to 7 5 6 and 3 and so on.
Again that's my index stroke index 0 no index 1 no index to row in D.C. and so on and so forth.
Let's if I want to drop it in an entire roll from the Matrix.
What if I want to tell people that a specific element.
Then I have to specify what index I'm looking for in a row.
What index I'm looking for in a column.
Okay which makes complete sense.
So here if I wanted to get specific element milliken's bespoke a matrix square breckin 0 squared bracket
too.
For instance if you run there they'll tell you okay.
You actually feel pain.
Here the index number index of 0 they mean the first job and four columns you have this is column number
zero score number 1.
This column number two then that means you're looking for this element 6 and that's why you actually
walked in six here.
What if I wanted to let's say or peening Mm X or have a full matrix and you wanted to go there and or
take let's say a section or a portion of that meet X..
You can do that using again the column method of the column operator so he can as you can see here you
would see in a C and want to get Matrix column and 2.
Okay what do what level listicle looks or malonis say Colin and 2.
That means they wanted to go there and actually grab the first two rolls.
So what I'm looking for and look in is for all rows and I'm looking for the one that has in there.
Zero and index 1 and you skipped number two.
OK it's a little bit confusing but once you practice it you'll actually.
Get used to it.
So here you actually grabbing for 1 6 9 and 5 and then you're grabbing 6 9 9 4 2 which is simply the
first two rows in here.
That's why you guys in here.
Right.
If I change let's say column and three in one it's that would open the first first three.
So you're in the 0 1 2 and you skipped number three because you don't include the last element you.
What if I want to let's say or think the elements from the bottom of the Matrix so you can actually
do it but you put the numbers first.
You put two and then konnan.
OK let's stay on it.
So we should say two and then column and that mean and looking for simply these elements and looking
for this draw this show and this rock.
Okay.
And that's why you actually in these these numbers here when you wrote Will you write to and konnan.
All right.
Well if I wanted to let's say or poem Colin.
So that's when you wouldn't want to talk him.
ROSE And you can imagine.
Rose You can specify Colin and then the number which is the number of rules you're looking for.
I wanted to specify columns.
Okay.
You have to specify that I'm looking for again.
Rose comma columns.
So if you're looking for four hour of Talk Express.
COLLINS That's why he when you specify you have to specify column first and then comma which means I'm
asking for all of rows.
OK and then I need to specify which columns I'm looking for.
OK.
So that's what happening was just passed by metrix COLIN That means I'm looking for all rows and then
I have to specify which column I am looking for specifying column two.
That means I'm looking for these two elements of these two column this column this column.
And they were all rows and this one is a of that means it's captured here within the column operatory.
If I want to specify them to any kind that means I'm looking for the last the last column is from from
here from the end.
And that's why you're grabbing simply five human nine and six which are five nine and six.
OK.
You're getting in practice a little bit.
I have dozens of exorcized with it.
But again it's very very straightforward and very easy to deal with.
What if I wanted to key elements election.
Okay.
For atl for example to go there and grab and put kind of an IF condition to grab the specific elements.
If they satisfy specific conditions so let's find amita extra in defined.
That has again ren mendham integers between 1 and 10 and the 5 by 5 and what I wanted to do they wanted
to let's say grab the elements that a good read or then three you can actually do that easily in one
pile.
You can specify the matrix and you specify open square brackets and then you spoke it.
I need the matrix elements that are greater than 3 and that would put them within a new matrix.
If you run it that will tell your key.
Now you actually grab the elements only there are greener than 3 which means you actually skipped so
you see it again see anyone.
So all these ones have been skipped or the number twos have been skipped and that's where you appeared.
Only the numbers are larger than 3.
What if I wanted to let's say or painful of the split even numbers.
You can again do whatever condition within the within here.
So you going in Call of the name of the Matrix square brackets and you specify the condition.
So he'd I'm looking for a matrix elements that are you can be divisible by can be divisible by 2 with
no remainder.
And that's if you get it a member of the mould.
If they are equal to zero that means that only you're planning even numbers on this.
You skipped minds you skip the 7 for instance and all you hear locked in or even numbers when optimality
the odd number as you can gene then make it one.
Run it and then you can opt in of the numbers here.
And now you have.
Kind of like a brief introduction for an umpire an umpire that is extremely powerful.
You can use it for tons of applications.
This is just kind of laying out lay down the foundation.
Again you should be proud of all your Python programming skills were going to use them extensively.
When we run practical applications I hope you guys enjoyed their section and see you in the next section.